Moria versions:

Umoria 5.5.2: This is the current version of Umoria.  It will accept
characters from all Umoria 5.x versions.

Umoria 5.3.0-5.5.1: These are essentially identical to 5.5.2, and
compatible with it, although 5.5.2 fixes a few bugs, and there have been
a few minor changes.  Upgrading from 5.5.1 to 5.5.2 is probably not
necessary; upgrading from earlier versions is recommended.

Umoria 5.2.2: This is in good condition, and compatible with the current
version.  One bug: don't rest more than 10,000 turns in place, and leave
the level if you start seeing lots of "Compacting monsters..."
messages, or the game may lock up.

Umoria 5.2.1: This is playable, but has no high scores file; you
probably want to upgrade if possible.

Umoria 5.1.0-5.2.0: These versions can be played, but are somewhat
buggy.  If you run into an invisible, invincible monster which doesn't
move or attack, get off the level.  If you can FTP the sources or
executables, you should upgrade.

The U is often omitted from the names of the following Umoria versions.

Umoria 4.87/PC-Moria 4.87x: This version is based on the old VMS Moria.
It is relatively bug-free, but it doesn't have the features of the 5.x
versions, such as monster memory.  The save file format is incompatible
with 5.x, and several people have failed in attempts to write a
conversion program.
## I'm playing Moria version x; how does that compare to the current version?

Umoria 4.85: A moderately buggy version, also based on VMS Moria.

Umoria/PC-Moria 4.83: An extremely buggy version, based on VMS Moria.
This version is essentially unplayable (see invisible doesn't work,
stores all close after 32768 turns, etc.)

The following versions are not compatible with Umoria, and Umoria
spoiler files may not apply to them.  I don't know much about these
versions.

UB Moria 5.0: Also known as VMS Moria 5.0, this is the current version
of VMS Moria.  It has more monsters, a Black Market, and other features.

Imoria 4.9: This is apparently a very good game, with new character
classes and other features.  It is now available for VMS and Linux only;
it has not yet been ported to DOS or other Unix platforms.

Amiga Moria 3.0: Although this version was originally based on 4.85, it
has many added monsters, features, and bugs (including items which make
you virtually invincible).

BOSS: This game changes the setting of Moria, but keeps many of the
items.  It is based on VMS Moria 5.0.

Pmoria: A version of Moria based on 5.5.0, with many enhancements.

Morgul: An expanded version of Moria, keeping a similar setting.  It is
based on Umoria 5.5.0.

Angband: Another expanded version of Moria with a similar setting.  It
is based on Umoria 5.2.1; current versions include some of the bug fixes
from later versions.  Although the basic game structure is similar to
Moria's, there have been many enhancements.  For more information, read
the USENET group rec.games.roguelike.angband.